The Green Company was set up in 2022. Senior Management made the decision to acquire expertise help in designing an information system.
There are many reasons why the organisation choose this route. In short its good for the business.
Going Green means operatonal costs are reduced. For example, a conversion to solar energy pays off: as this means 
that its possible for companies to find their electricity bills are reduced by $500. Also being environmentally friendly also means attractive incentives from the Government such as savings and tax credits.
(Maryville University online)when running a business).
The above mentioned also points out that going green also means that such meansures enhance 
company's reputation such as lego which is ranked number 3.
Cloud computing also has its benefits where Green IT is concerned, accoring to Sarkis, Koo and Watson (2013) 
makes it possible to make the efficiency of usng power at a maximum, increases any attempt at recycling while
while reducing the exhalation of gas and carbon. Therefore an organisation can save energy


Consultants Eimeara, Nikhil and Huzaifa were approached. Eimeara and Nikhil did work on the Front end while Huzaifa set up a the back end of the webiste.
The Green Database was set up with tables created and unneccessary data deleted. Mysql commands inserted data into the tables and populated them.
A customer, product and orders tables were created. The constraints were the primary key, CustomerId in the Customr table
OrderID in the Orders table and the product Id in the Products table the products table was joined to the orders table.

User requirements- the end user will be able to use the website with ease thanks to sustainable approaches. By ensuring there is no needless code and the web performance is
optimised will ensure the end user has a pleasant experience navigating the website and will return.
The end user will also have the chance to purchase eco friendly goods.

The company's stakeholders are its employees, consumers and local community. The intended users of an information system will most likely be in the age nd group 18-50. The system will be convenient and will provide the information they need and fast.
Web pages were created in CSS and HTMl with some Javascript and python. The pages were made into razor. 
The python code was debugged and checked for errors.

My thoughts and reflections about the module (Eimeara):
At first I found it very difficult. I felt overwhelmed and too scared to try now I realize that was stupid as I was never going to learn. Little by little I practiced whenever I could which wasn't easy as I was working too. This was a very difficult assignment, many things I never heard of before like repositories but I am doing my best. At first I only did tables in mysql. Then something told me that was very little. I then did html and css pages and installed pycharm on Thursday. Right now I am having trouble pushing it. I did python programs such as guess the number where the organisation is offering a free car to give away in a competion,  calculated carbon emissions and created car as a class. I tested all my code - all solutions are for testing are courtesy of trychat gpt. For HTML and CSS I used w3schools as an inspiration. The code for Car as a class and the date   is courtesy of pynative exercises.  I also helped Huzaifa in identifying errors.All in all I enjoyed the lectures and found the lecturer most helpful. My pages were about the company, its history and mission and its products.


Individual Contribution:
Eimeara: 
I helped with the front end identifying errors,debugging and testing python code which was for the most part successful

Nikhil:
I developed the Front End design, theme, and name of the web- app we made.

Huzaifa:
I did the back-end and converted the pages into razor format for ease of control.


References:

Maryville University online - Importance of environmental awareness 
https://online.maryville.edu/blog/importance-of-environmental-awareness-when-running-a-business/


References used: guess the number code adapted from Trychat gpt and Portfolio courses owner of-youtube video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B2tviDGFq84 date accessed 13/4/23
Bibliography
Sarkis,J, Koo, C and Watson, R Information Systems Frontiers 15,695-704 (2013) https://www.techtarget.com/searchcio/definition/green-IT-green-information-technology

Acknowledgement
 guess the number code adapted from Trychat gpt and Portfolio courses owner of-youtube video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B2tviDGFq84 date accessed 13/4/23
The code for calculator of carbon emissions - adapted from youtube video owner the Teen Engineer https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EBtTns99iZQ.
date accessed: 14/4/23
